You awake for the first time outside a house.  You try to enter the house, but it is blocked.  You find yourself stumbling down some stairs and ending up underground, where you avoid monsters, while remaining completely defenseless.  You see a passageway while underground, but it is across some water, and you can't swim.  You proceed to find a sword, and go back to the surface.  It is at this point that you find that you can break the rock in front of the Oracle's house and enter it, whereupon you talk to him and he reveals to you that you were, in fact, created by the Oracle in order to attend to the fact that his enormous tree is going to die soon.  He created you in his garden so that you can retrieve a new seed--a new seed that can be found underground where you foundyour sword.  He tells you to get that seed by any means necessary, and you go outside once again (you're allowed to go see the tree off to your left from the house).

The next available place you can go to is that second dungeon, where you go along and defeat all of the enemies and end up killing the boss.  Then, you get the shield and exit the dungeon.  When you exit, there is a great beam of light over the first dungeon, and an enormous, purple, donut-shaped rock with a hole in the center falls on the stairs.  It is at this point that you begin to see a white character that is out of reach constantly watching you throughout the remainder of the game.  You go through all of the remaining dungeons, collecting pieces of some kind of rune from chests along the way, as well as getting hints by NPC's that they're a bit disgruntled by your destructive behavior, but none of them try to stop you.

Finally, you reach the 8th dungeon, which consists of a giant tower reaching upwards into the sky.  This tower eventually devolves into a series of walkways made of white cloud patterns, where you defeat the enemes and obtain two items that are each a combination of two previously earned items.  This allows you to enter the final portal, which places you in the air right above the hole in the purple rock.  You fall through this hole and enter the first dungeon yet again.  You find your way to the passageway across the water where the seed is held, and you find yourself in front of a gigantic frozen monster that is roughly half the size of the level.  You walk by him through an opening in the wall, and end up in another room with a very small, cutsie boss.  You fight him and his earthquake attacks, kill him, and proceed to the final "seed room."  In this room stands the white character, who refers to himself as "The Watcher."  He tells you that your actions have been unforgivable in killing all of the bosses and monsters in your quest, and that he refuses to give you the seed, on his life.  It is at this point that you see a door in the back with a seal in the shape of the rune you've been collecting with the chests.  If you have finished the seal (which only requires most of the chests, not all) then you can enter that room and find a second seed.  Otherwise, you kill the defenseless Watcher and take his seed.  The game ends with you holding up the seed as the screen fades to black.